---
path: "/depression-or-whatever-this-is-called"
date: "2019-09-14"
dateString: "14 September 2019"
title: "Depression (or whatever this is called)"
published: "false"
---

Hi, it's me again. I just want to make a simple post this time, nothing constructed or anything. Just stuff that's been bugging me for a very long time now. This is that sort of sad posts that I used to make in my old blog. I initially didn't want to make something like this in this blog since this domain is kind of associated with my web resume page thing, and that's not a good marketing, you know, to let your possible employer know of all the problems and shits that you're going through. But I figured that I'll just completely remove all links that leads to this blog. I'll make it seems like this blog doesn't exist on the main page. That way at least they wouldn't see it right in front of them. Anyway, the reason that I'm making this is so that I can both understand this thing more rationally (writing about it helps a lot, trust me) as well as a mean for me to express what I'm feeling. I'm really bad at expressing myself, both online and in real life. I think by embracing this thing, especially in a website that's not hidden from the world, I would be able to express myself a bit better. And yes, my former blog was hidden from all search engine, although it depends on the search engine itself to respect that. Okay, so enough with the preface, here we go.

So I've been having that kind of thoughts. _Those_ kinds of thoughts. It's been this way since middle school, I think. It's been so long that I forgot where it all came through. It wasn't a big stuff or anything, it was just that I realized that there are some people that didn't really liked me and didn't want me to be around. But then it grew and manifested into self hatred. It was mild at that time, but it was growing. Fast forward to me being in high school, it was way way worse. A little backstory, I've always liked computers. Not programming per se, but just computers in general and everything that's related to it. When I was in elementary school, while everyone else had dreams of being generic stuff like doctors, teachers, or even astronauts (this always gives me a chuckle), I had dreams of being a programmer or coder. I didn't even know how computers work, or what exactly what a program was. I had only used a few stuff in my old computer and my super old Nokia phone and I wanted to be the one making those stuff. So that has been my one drive, computers. But it was all shattered when I was in high school. At that time, I found out that dreams are nothing that lies that we tell ourselves to make us happy. I looked at the people around me and thougt, that thing that you're doing for a living wasn't the one that you dreamed of. It wasn't even close. So what's the point of it then? Dreams. That's not how life works. All that everyone can do is just to do the best at what life gave them. So I rejected it, the concept of dreams. So I went to the opposite side of my dreams and picked the "Social Science" classes instead of the more famous "Natural Science" class. For those who don't follow, Indonesian student are required to choose between those two classes as a base for the curriculum that they'll be using. Usually there would be a test that dictates where the student will go, so most of the times the student themself can't actually choose. The way that it's been is that students with higher rank usually goes to the "Natural Science" classes, making a stigma that the "Social Science" students are bunch of dumb and thrown aways, even though I can't really say that they're wrong. Now the thing is, if I want to continue to college to learn computer stuff, I have to be a student of that "Natural Science" class. Well I don't have to be, but the tests that will be nessecary for that will still adhere to the Natural Science curriculum. So basically, by going to that Social Science class, I killed my dreams of being a programmer. (Or more like, "back then I thought I would"). But I did it anyway. And I felt so lost.

Speaking of that self hatred thing, yeah, it really grew on me at this period of my life. I really hated myself. Like, legit, if there was anyone I hate the most, out of this entire planet, it would be me. And there was something new this time, something that came out of nowhere. I realized that I didn't want to live. Yep, suicidal thoughts. I hated myself that I didn't see me deserving anything, and yet I still crave for them. Like for example, being included in something. I've always felt like I was invisible. And I thought that, yeah, it's fine. I deserve this. But at the same time, it's those times when I wish that I was included. Then I would drift back to my suicidal thoughts. What would happen if I die. Like, imagine their first reaction when they see the news in the Whatsapp group or something. They won't give a shit, man. After a month no one would realize that I'm gone. No one would really care. And I cried, like a lot. This is the thing that fucks me up the most. I've contemplated it all. I really wanted to die but I can't get myself to do that. Suicide. I just hope so much that someday I got into a messy accident and died on the road or something. But yeah. I just couldn't do it. I was a coward, still am. But this mindset is the main reason that I didn't know what I will do in my life. I'm not good at long term planning, as in planning the future and stuff. It's kind of hard to plan for the future when your brain keeps thinking of dying, you know. Everytime I woke up, the first thing that came to my mind was me dying. I've got so many pictures of me dying in my mind, and the ironic thing is that it all are mostly right after I wake up. These thoughs are the thing that leads me to constantly have this pessimistic (or realistic, pick your side) mindset, that if you think of something good, it's most likely not gonna happen. And the worst part of it all, I didn't tell anyone. I simply didn't have anyone to talk to, not about these kind of stuff anyway. I've never connected myself in a personal way to my friends. Not this much personal. I had to be this fun and happy version of me in front of them. I was scared that they would leave me alone or something if I tell them. So I started to invent my own friend. So yeah. I talk to myself, sometimes in my mind, sometimes outloud. Over time, I like talking to myself more than I like talking to some other people. That's why I like to be alone. I'm physically alone, but my mind is not. So I was in this weird love/hate relationship with myself. I like talking to myself because that's the only way that I can let go of these pain, but I also really want to make myself dissappear. But hey at least if helps.

So the final year of high school comes in and just like any other students at this point in time, it's time for me to think about what's next, and let me tell you, I had absolutely no ideam but I had to force myself. I definetely cannot go to anything related to computers. I'm not crazy enough to learn all 3 years worth of Natural Science stuff in a span of 6 months. So I ended up listing all places that I can go that's still within my realm of education. Well, there's Faculty of Business and Economy. I liked economy, but I didn't see myself learning about that for 4 years and I didn't think I qualify given my previous try out scores anyway. I ended up choosing politics as my way to go, despite me hating anything related to politics. I've ran out of options, and pragmatically, if I wanted to be accepted at something, this is it. And it was in this final year that I felt a bit better, emotionally. I mean, my grades weren't so bad. Somehow, I was sure that I could do this. And I was a bit used to those suicidal thoughts. My parents kind of forced me (altough I agreed voluntarily) to take this courses that takes place after the school ends. Those course ends just before 6pm, and while, yes, it was tiring, it also didn't leave me that much space to have negative thoughts. Somehow, it all could be reduced by just making myself busy. This knowledge right here is basically the foundation of the strategy that I am currently using in my college life to cope with it all. But yeah, even in all the busyness, those stuff are still there. Truth is, I don't think that I can ever get rid of it. It's like it's etched in to me permanently. Like I can never escape from it. But at least it was better in that last few months of high school. When I got the news that I was accepted in the uni that I'm in right now, I litteraly muttered the word "fuck" to my laptop. But I was excited. How can I not, I can go away from my city, with an entirely new people that I don't know before. It was my chance of starting off again. Slate clean. But unfortunately, that's another story for another time. I will be continuing this story of my past (and current) demons in a few days, I hope, but it's 2.30 am where I live and I'm super physically tired right now, so yeah. Bye.
