---
path: "/hello-world"
date: "2019-09-10"
dateString: "10 September 2019"
title: "Hello World"
published: "true"
---

Hi. It's me, Adit, and this is my new blog. Looking at the visual of this web, you might think that this some unfinished project or something. Well, it's finished, pretty much. I intentionally made this web as minimalist as possible. No fancy graphic design here and there, it's all just texts. This blog also doesn't have stuff like post pagination or even post category and stuff (yet). I just don't think that I need it for now. Simplicity is the theme for this blog anyway, so why complicate stuff? But believe me when I say this, building this blog wasn't as simple as this blog looks.

I made this blog using GatsbyJs (which is a framework based on React. React is a JavaScript framework) with their awesome integration with GraphQl. Do you notice how fast everything loads when you move through pages in this blog? Yeah, that's what React does. What happens is that your browser doesn't actually go to another page, it just updates the different stuff between the two pages while maintaining the same components untouched, making an almost instant transition between pages. This entire site (blog subdomain and main domain) are deployed on Netlify, with a domain that I bought from Domainesia. Oh and one more thing, I don't use CMS for this blog. I've said this multiple times before, either in real life or online, but Wordpress and PHP aren't really my thing. I also don't like the way everything is set up and how little the control that you have with your own web. But they do have good documentation though, so that's something that I should give them some credit for. So yeah. Wordpress is not my thing. But it wasn't without its problems as well.

So I already knew from the get-go that I will be using React for this project, but it turns out that using vanilla React is a bit cumbersome just for the fact that you have to set React Router and some other things just to navigate and stuff, so I used react-static, a static site generator for React. It's pretty neat. I used it as well as GraphCMS for post querying and CMS. I found this tutorial online and took only what I needed for this project since I already know what I want for this blog. I also deviated from the tutorial a bit and did my own thing. So everything seemed working and normal, at least in my locally hosted development build. I was ready to deploy it to Netlify, and when I did, it didn't work.

Now, I'm not an expert at React or anything, in fact, I just learned it, but I was so confused about the fact that it wouldn't compile. The thing is that confuses me the most is that it worked. It ran just fine on the development build, everything works, but it refuses to do the same for the production build (which I assume should yield the same result). The problem was something about the querying for the individual post. Here's the second thing that made me scratch my head even harder. On the production build, without the individual post querying thing, the query work just fine. The web can fetch data from the GraphCMS API and display it. It's only when you go to the individual single post that it broke, saying that it cannot set the property of the field of the query that's the type of undefined. And boy, how confused I was. I looked online hoping to shed some light into this but I didn't found any solution. Some people got a similar error message, but their case and mine aren't related in any way. I troubleshoot that shit for almost a week and got absolutely nowhere closer to the result that I wanted to get. I had to put down this project for a while. I had stuff in real life to handle anyway.

But it was when I put down this project, I accidentally found Traversy Media's crash course on GatsbyJs. I didn't even look it up myself, it was recommended to me by the almighty YouTube algorithm. As it turns out, GatsbyJs is just perfect to build a blog type website. Fundamentally, GatsbyJs is pretty similar to react-static since both are based on React. So on Monday (yesterday), I began redoing what I did on GatsbyJs. It wasn't that much of a hassle since I've got the site to work before. I just needed to copy and paste the JSX elements that I've made in react-static. The way that GatsbyJs works internally is a bit different than react-static though, so I had to do quite a lot of making new codes and making sure that stuff works. And now here we are, with a fully working site. I must say, given how much trouble I've gone through to make this site live, it definitely did put a smile on my face seeing this blog finally come to life.

So there's that. This entire thing is also well documented in my Twitter account, but I want to retell the story here as I can get a lot thorough with the story here compared to a Twitter post. Besides I need a topic for this first post anyway. But that's it for now. It's almost 12 pm where I live and I'm getting sleepy. So see you in the next one!
