---
path: "/things-i-look-forward-to-in-2020"
date: "2020-01-05"
dateString: "05 January 2020"
title: "Things I Look Forward To In 2020"
---

Hi. It's been a while. It wasn't for no reason though, I was busy. A lot has happened since the last time I wrote, but the biggest event in recent days was the new year, and while I know that it's a bit late by now, I want to say a happy new year to all of us. May this year be even better than last year. 

2019 was well, let's just say that it has its ups and downs. Too many things happened in 2019. I made a super lengthy Twitter thread (https://twitter.com/Adit_Raharditya by the way) about the year 2019 so I'm not gonna repeat it here. But the point is, apart from what I feel about last year, 2019 was definitely a transformative year for me. It's now over, though. And as the old one passes, the new one emerges. So here is my list of stuff that I look forward to in 2020. 

The list starts with something that I've been wanting to do for a long time. So in December last year, my friends from my organization and I made this thing called DM Creative. It's supposed to be something like a production house, where we take jobs from clients with tasks ranging from photoshoots to graphic design. This is a continuation of the work that we've done for the organization and events that I've participated in, but this time we're actually getting paid for our work. The "DM" stands for "Digital Memories" by the way. Yeah, I know. Not the best name ever. I didn't like it, but the more I say it, the more it becomes.. just okay. Anyway, DM is still in its early stages. It's not even a month old by now. We don't have much to boast on our Instagram profile, so every time we land on a gig, that will certainly be our promotion material as well. So far we've had 2 gigs in total. We established DM just 3 days before my uni's graduation, hoping that we'll find someone who wants to hire a photographer to shoot their moments and stuff. We knew that it was too close to the graduation ceremony, so if no one hired us, we would just show up there and take photos of random people to put as our promotion material. This is also why we didn't have enough time to think of a better name. We were so close to the graduation ceremony and that was our momentum to start this. We had everything, all but a name, so we settled on that. As it turned out, one of our guys has a friend that was about to graduate and wanted to rent cameras to take good photos. He offered to hire us instead, and he did. That was our first gig and first-time experience of working with a client, and it went great. 

The next one on the list is my internship. My uni, just like most universities here, requires their student to take part in an internship as part of the requirements for graduation. My study program is all about political science, so our options for this thing are either government agencies or government-owned organizations. If I'm being honest, I think that this internship thing was the most divisive moment for my year class. The early talks happened right when we were all busy with this big national-level event that most of us take part in. It was closing in on the event date so we were even busier than before. One night me and two of my friends hang out. At one point one of them talked about this topic. As it turns out, he already formed an internship group with some people from his class. Me and my other friend were surprised, as there was absolutely no discussion about the internship, and yet here they are with their fully formed group. We dug deeper, and we found that some other people, including the head of my student organization and the head of the committee for the event we were busy with, already had their group formed as well. Once more people knew about this, the madder they become. Most criticized the two leaders for taking this matter in an underground style instead of being upright about it. Some also criticized the class coordinator for not doing what he's supposed to do, that is to unite us all. Others who fell behind were desperate to find a group they could latch on. You could even observe how people form a circle of people and reject others. So yeah. Anyway, I ended up teaming up with my friend from that night as well as some other people. We're looking to apply for this government agency in Jakarta but we haven't made any more progress other than discussing what our plan is going to be. This is the semester break, after all. It's the only time of the year for us to not think about college and spend more time with old friends and family, so it's understandable that we haven't made progress. We'll come back full throttle once the new semester starts. 

The last thing probably is my thesis. I didn't realize this going into this new year, but this is going to be my last year being a university student. It's hard to believe that the end of my college life will end so soon. Honestly, I don't know I'm going to be able to get this done. How the fuck am I supposed to be able to get my thesis done by the end of the year? I don't even understand most of the stuff I've learned over the years. If you know me in real life, you'd know that I have no interest in politics and shit. How can I talk about a topic thoroughly if I'm not passionate about it? I don't know. I haven't come up with an issue to talk about, still no concept, no themes, no titles. But whether I like it or not, I will have to finish this thesis and everything that comes with it, that is probably me bashing my head against my desk, frantically looking for a title for my thesis, and an endless wave of revision that will feel like it'll never end. Wish me luck anyway. After all, luck may be the only thing I need to get through this. 

Anyway, let's talk about something that's actually fun, like movies and series in 2020. A lot has ended in 2019 in terms of series. Two of the biggest for me are Game of Thrones and Mr. Robot. Game of Thrones was, well, you all read the internet. You know how it ended, and just how bad it was. Mr. Robot, however, did a fantastic job of ending the show. Mr. Robot is a series that I've watched live since its first season aired. I experienced the full 5 years of watching and waiting through the season hiatus until its finale. It was an experience no other series could give. This series affected me, changed the way that I see storytelling, it even inspired me to apply their weird framing technique into the photos that I take. This series is very good, and it ended perfectly. But enough of stuff that's over last year, it's not what this post is for anyway. For 2020, I only look forward to two things, really. Those are Tenet and Westworld Season 3. Tenet is a movie that's written and directed by my favorite, Cristopher Nolan. I don't know what the movie is about, and there is still very little information about it. But it's Chris Nolan, you know. Everything made by him is good, so this movie is going to be good. Westworld is another amazing series (although their second season wasn't as good as their first in my opinion). They always take 2 years of season hiatus (Season 1 was 2015 and season 2 was 2018) so I'm really excited for this season. The early trailers look promising enough to be better than their season 2. 

The last thing is, well, what kind of new year blog post is it without a new year resolution, right? My resolutions are simple, to be better than last year. I need to worry less. Experience says that it won't do anyone any good in almost any scenario. I need to respect other people more, answer their chat immediately, instead of just reading and never reply to them. I need to socialize better. It's been my issue for as long as I can remember, you could argue that it's just in my personality to have a harder time socializing than other people. I've forced myself to socialize for a while now, and most of the time it worked out fine, but lately, I feel like it's too tiring to do that. I'm starting to let go of friends that I used to be close to. I don't show up nearly enough when they hang out anymore. I'm afraid that I'll just end up alone, all by myself, having no one or nowhere to go to. So yeah. Other than mental related new year resolution, I also need to look after my physical body. I need to exercise more. I've been spending too much time staring at my PC, and I know that's not healthy. At least I've made some progress on this part though, as I just did jogging this evening. And it wasn't bad either, considering I haven't jog for a whole year until today. Oh, and my last resolution is to get myself a camera. If I'm serious with DM, then at least I've got to make some investment to it. Just so you know, I just built a new PC two months ago. It's pretty decent. I went with Ryzen for this build since I've always been an AMD fan. I could use this PC for stuff related to DM as well since I now can edit videos and stuff much faster compared to my laptop, but I still think that I need to get myself a camera since I don't have one. My bank account is still in a phase of recovery, though, since I spend almost all of my money on this PC. I don't regret it, but now I'm on my way to saving money to get a camera, so I hope that I could manage my spending better this year. 

I think that that's enough for now. This is already the longest post I've ever made on this blog, and I'm getting tired of rambling by now. I'm just excited about this year and all the possibilities. This year will also host one of the hardest series of events that I've been trying not to think over the last few years, such as my final thesis and my internship. I wish that I get lucky when dealing with that stuff. That being said, I hope that 2020 will bring good stuff to all of us. Till next time!