---
path: "/hello-world"
date: "10 September 2019"
title: "Hello World"
---

Hi. It's me, Adit, and this is my new blog. Looking at the visual of this web, you might think that this web is not yet finished. Well, it's finished, pretty much. I feel like I've exhausted all my effort designing the main page for this web that I didn't really feel like making a lot of styling for this blog subdomain. So I made this web as minimalist as much as minimalist goes. No fancy graphic design here and there, it's all just texts. This blog also doesn't have stuff like post pagination, or even post categeory and stuff. I just don't think that I need it. Simplicity is the theme for this blog anyway, so why complicate stuff? But, man. Believe me when I say this, building this blog wasn't as simple as this blog looks.

I made this blog using GatsbyJs (which is a framework basen on React, and React is a framework basen on JavaScript) and GraphQl for post querying. This entire site (blog subdomain and main domain) are deployed on Netlify, with a domain that I bought from Domainesia. Oh and one more thing, I don't use CMS for this blog. Yeah, I know. But if you followed along my previous blog (yes I had a blog and it was a free Wordpress blog), Wordpress and its PHP aren't really my thing. I also don't like the way everything is setup and how little the control that you can do with it. But they do have good documentation though, so that's something that I should give them some credit for. But yeah. Wordpress is not my thing, so I made myself this blog. But it wasn't without its problems as well. So I already knew from the get go that I will be using React for this project, but it turns out that using vanilla React is a bit cumbersome just for the fact that you have to set React Router and stuff just to navigate and stuff, so I used react-static, a static site generator for react. It's awesome. So basically you just make new pages, do components and stuff just like React, and use Link as a substitute to the "a" tag, and it will generate all the HTML for you. It even has hot refresh. So in the beginning, I used react-static as well as GrapCMS as the post querying and CMS. I found this tutorial online, and followed through it. I didn't really followed all of the tutorial as I didn't really needed all of them. I already knew what I want for this blog anyway so I just follow stuff that I need. I also deviated from the tutorial a bit and did my own thing but yeah. So everything seemed happy and normal, and I was ready to deploy it to Netlify, and when I did, it didn't work.

Now, I'm not an expert at React or anything, in fact I just learnt it, but I was so confused about the fact that it wouldn't compile. Now, the thing is that it worked. It worked on the development build, everything works, but it refuses to do the same for the production build (which I assume should yield the same result). The problem was something about the querying for the individual post. Here's the second thing that made me scratch my head harder that I should. On the production build, without the individual post querying thing, the query work just fine. The web can fetch data from the GraphCMS API and display it. It's only when you go to the individual post that it broke, saying that it cannot set the property of the field of the query that's the type of undefined. And boy how confused I was. I looked online hoping to shed some light into this but I didn't found any solution. There were people that got similar error, but their case and mine aren't related in any way. I troubleshooted that shit for 3 days and got absolutely nowhere closer to the result that I wanted to get. So as my last desperate act, I went to the github repo that the tutorial maker made for the video. I didn't realize that they uploaded the project to github before. I wanted to see if the code that they made can indeed be compiled for the production build, because the thing is, they didn't include the deployment part in the video. As time grows, I began to suspect that it wasn't just my code that had this problem, but their's as well, and my suspicion was proven to be true. Their code didn't even compile. It had the same error that I got. But at least it gave me the knowledge that it wasn't something wrong in just my code, so I put down this project for a while. I had stuff in real life to handle anyway. But it was when I did this, I accidentally found Traversy Media's crash course on GatsbyJs. I didn't even look it up myself, it was reccomended to me by the almighty YouTube algorithm. I was intrigued so I watched it, and it turns out that the crash course was to build a blog using GatsbyJs. Fundamentally, GatsbyJs is pretty similar to react-static, but the different thing with this tutorial is that he also showed the deployment of this project, which means that it must work. So on Monday (yesterday), I began redoing what I did on GatsbyJs. It wasn't that much of a hassle since I've got the site to work before. I just needed to copy and paste the JSX elements that I've made in react-static. The way that GatsbyJs works internally is a bit different that react-static though, so I had to do quite a lot of making new codes and stuff. And now here we are, with a fully working site. I must say, given how much troubles I've gone trough to make this site live, it definetely did put a smile on my face seeing this blog live.

So there's that. This entire thing is also well documented in my Twitter account (it's @Adit_Raharditya btw), but I want to retell the story here as I can get a lot thorough with the story here compared to a Twitter post. Besides I need a good first post anyway. But that's it for now. It's now 10 pm where I live and only half of my nose is working right now. Been having this flu for the past 2 days. Oh and another thing, I only post this kind of stuff only when I feel like it, which is mostly when i feel lonely or sad or stuff like that. I basically did the same thing for my previous blog, using this story telling medium as a therapy. But whereas my old blog was specifically about me getting sad and depressed, I'll try to make more post where I'm perfectly happy and just want to tell a story. Or just to make this blog alive. Anyway, see you in the next one!
